**Let's set up your local environment**
------------------------------------------

Awesome job exploring some data and building a few questions of your own!  

It's totally fine to get started in the browser but the way to really master your skills is to get a local setup and learn to work within your own environment.  

The next few problems are going to help make sure you are comfortable working on locally.  Once your set up you'll be able to use this workspace all the way through the course...and BEYOND!  

The environment we'll use is pretty quick to set up and hopefully you'll be up and running in no time :)

All you'll need to do here is...

* Download your new Database.
* Download SQLite

As soon as you have SQLite logged into your new database you're ready for the next page!


--------------------

**You might already have SQLIte**
--------------------

Before getting specific...it's likely you might already have SQLite installed on your computer.

Try opening your terminal and typing this...

    $ sqlite3

Do you see this?

    SQLite version 3.8.4.1 2014-03-11 15:27:36

    Enter ".help" for usage hints.

    Connected to a transient in-memory database.

    Use ".open FILENAME" to reopen on a persistent database.

    sqlite>

If you do then your already set up to go.  You'll need to do the following steps...

* Type **.exit** to leave the sqlite terminal.
* Download and unzip chinook_db from the Downloadables section.
* Navigate your terminal to the chinook_db folder
* Type **sqlite3 chinook.db**...now you're logged into the database we'll be using!  You can continue to the next page.
    

##**SQlite Environment on WINDOWS**

* Download sqlite_windows from the Downloadables section.

* Unzip this file into your C:\\> drive.
        
You should have a sqlite_windows folder with a chinook.db and sqlite.exe file inside.

Type **cmd** into your START window and hit enter.  

Type the following into your command prompt.    

    C:\> cd \sqlite_windows
    
    C:\sqlite_windows>sqlite3 chinook.db
    
    sqlite>
    
You've now downloaded sqlite3 and are logged into the chinook database that we'll be using in this course!
If you are familiar with the command line you can move your files to a different location if you'd like.

##**SQLite Environment on MAC OS X**

SQLite3 is most likely preinstalled on your operating system.  We'll just need hook SQLite up to the database we'll be using.

Download chinook_db from the Downloadables section below.  Unzip this file in your Downloadables section.

Type **terminal** into your spotlight and hit enter to open a terminal window.

Type the following into your terminal window...

    ~> cd Downloads/chinook_db
    ~> sqlite3 chinook.db
    sqlite>

You're now logged into the chinook database that we'll be using in this course!
If you are familiar with the command line you can move your files to a different location if you'd like.


##**Install SQlite on Linux**

SQLite3 is most likely preinstalled on your operating system.  We'll just need hook SQLite up to the database we'll be using.

Download chinook_db from the Downloadables section below.  

Unzip this file and navigate to your chinook_db folder from the terminal window.

    $ sqlite3 chinook.db
    sqlite>

You're now logged into the chinook database that we'll be using in this course!







