**Welcome to your SQLite Workspace**
------------------------------------------


In the previous slide you've hopefully downloaded SQLite and connected to the chinook database.

Let's get a little more comfortable in this new environment.

Here you'll learn how to...

* Access your database
* Run some basic commands
* Start querying your data!

--------------------

**Access your Database**
--------------------


If you haven't already done so, now is the time to log into the chinook database.  

Here's how...


    cd your/file/path/chinook_db
    sqlite3 chinook.db
    sqlite>
    
Welcome to the database!

--------------------

**Running some basic commands**
------------------------------------------

You can use the **.help** command at any time to find details about all your new database functions.


    sqlite> .help


Try **.tables** to see what tables are in your database.

    sqlite> .tables

If you're interested in the schema of your tables the **.schema** command is perfect for you.

    sqlite> .schema Album


**NOTE:** If you don't specify a table the **.schema** command will return the schema for all tables in the database.  

--------------------

**Start Querying your Data!**
--------------------

The **Chinook database** is an ITunes library representing a digital music store.  We'll be getting very familiar with this database throughout these problem sets.  If you want some more information on this database have a look HERE.

So now you've seen the table names in this database.  Let's have a look at all the data from the **Invoice** table.

```
sqlite> SELECT * FROM Invoice;
```

Your first query, AWESOME!

Now check out what's in the **Employee** table.

```
sqlite> SELECT * FROM Employee;
```

Can you find anything interesting about the other tables in your database?

> *Stay curious, explore everything!*


When you're all done exploring you can **.exit** the database.

```
sqlite> .exit 
```

Come back anytime using **$ sqlite3 chinook.db**.

You'll be using this dataset throughout the Problem Sets in this course.



